
In this module we will introduce the wireless communication terminology and concepts described by the various IEEE 802.11 protocols. Every wireless card supports a specific 802.11 protocol and may or may not be able to work with others.

It's useful to understand these protocols because we will be highly dependent on the hardware we use as well as on the equipment used in the testing environment. It's easy to imagine how understanding a piece of hardware can help us use it correctly. To that end, this module serves two purposes.

First and foremost, we want to provide an overview of these protocols and the differences between them. We don't expect anyone to memorize the information here but knowing which standard our device supports and what frequencies it covers is important.

Consider this quick example. If we are trying to capture packets from an 802.11ac transmitter, a basic understanding of _beamforming_ and _streams_ could be helpful if we are having problems.

The second purpose of this module is to serve as an abbreviated reference guide. Again, there are a lot of terms and concepts here, and we can't memorize them all. In general, when we encounter a new piece of hardware, we may choose to return to this module for a quick review.

#### 1.1. IEEE

The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)[1](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-210-9545/learning/ieee-80211-15801/ieee-80211-15978#fn-local_id_146-1) is a group of over 423,000 scientists, engineers, and other professionals who are the leading authorities in aerospace, telecommunications, biomedical engineering, electric power, and more.

The IEEE's 802 committee[2](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-210-9545/learning/ieee-80211-15801/ieee-80211-15978#fn-local_id_146-2) develops Local Area Network (LAN) standards and Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) standards. These include Ethernet, Token Ring, Wireless LAN, Bridging, and Virtual Bridged LANs.