### 1.3.1. Antenna Diversity

Antenna diversity uses multiple antennas to improve the quality of a wireless link. It is often seen on long-haul trucks, where they have a Citizens Band (CB) antenna on both the driver and passenger side mirrors. The ideal distance between the antennas depends on the wavelength (which is calculated, in meters, by dividing 300 by the frequency in MHz). In the case of trucks and CB, the distance between the driver and passenger side mirrors is not ideal, but it still improves the signal.

Multipath propagation[1](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-210-9545/learning/ieee-80211-15801/antenna-diversity-vs-mimo-15889/antenna-diversity-vs-mimo-15931#fn-local_id_193-1) is an issue in wireless, where the signal bounces off objects and changes the path. Fading occurs and the signal can be different at two nearby locations. So, in the case of diversity, the receiver will use the antenna with the strongest signal.

Antenna diversity is fairly simple in comparison, and just needs to determine which antenna has the strongest signal, which could be done by checking the Modulation Error Ratio[2](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-210-9545/learning/ieee-80211-15801/antenna-diversity-vs-mimo-15889/antenna-diversity-vs-mimo-15931#fn-local_id_193-2) for the specific signal. In turn, when transmitting, using a single-pole, double-throw (SPDT) switch[3](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-210-9545/learning/ieee-80211-15801/antenna-diversity-vs-mimo-15889/antenna-diversity-vs-mimo-15931#fn-local_id_193-3) to select the antenna.

Antenna diversity is generally utilized to make improvements when receiving, but it can be used for transmitting as well.

--------
### 1.3.2. MIMO

While antenna diversity selects the best (single) antenna to receive or transmit, MIMO splits the data into multiple streams and uses multiple antennas to send them. The receiver then combines the streams.

Some people get MIMO confused with Space-Time Block Code (STBC).[1](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-210-9545/learning/ieee-80211-15801/antenna-diversity-vs-mimo-15889/mimo-15933#fn-local_id_194-1) STBC is similar to MIMO, but instead of splitting the signal in multiple parts, STBC duplicates it across multiple antennas. As a result, there is a higher chance the signal can be received in a noisy environment, where the receiver will select the best copy. Choosing either STBC or MIMO will depend on an algorithm in the transmitter.