#### 
This Learning Unit covers the following Learning Objectives:

1. Understand what a suggestive parameter would be.
2. Understand how suggestive parameters appear in Web Applications.
3. Understand the basics of a Programmatic Endpoint.

As we improve our directory traversal skills, it becomes more helpful for us to understand suggestive parameters. A suggestive parameter is one that hints at what it does or the types of data values it works with, typically via its name. Let's explore some examples that may be considered suggestive parameters.

Consider the following GET request:

```bash
GET /search/Hello%20World! HTTP/1.1
```

The request above is suggestive in nature because it seems the _search_ GET parameter will perform a search for anything after /search/. This means anything we type into the URL Address Bar after /search/ will query a database management system[1](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/WEB-200-28380/learning/directory-traversal-attacks-30962/directory-traversal-overview-31295/accessing-the-lab-machines-31011#fn-local_id_207-1) (DBMS) or flat-file system of some kind to retrieve search results.

Let's review another suggestive parameter example. We'll imagine an administrative interface allowing us to click on files in the corresponding directory to retrieve them.

Suppose we send the following GET request:

```bash
GET /admin/dashboard/manage/handler.aspx?file=ourFile.jpeg HTTP/1.1
```
In the sample request above, we'll notice yet another suggestive parameter (_file_). This parameter name suggests that whatever happens on the back end, the _file_ parameter will manage file handling or data handling for files to some extent. These types of parameters (files and locations) are even more suggestive in nature and could be examined further for poor input sanitization.

Let's examine a few additional suggestive parameters for a deeper understanding:

```
?file=
?f=
/file/someFile

?location=
?l=
/location/someLocation

search=
s=
/search/someSearch

?data=
?d=
/data/someData

?download=
?d=
/download/someFileData
```

These are only a few examples to shed some light on suggestive parameters, which we'll be working with extensively in this Learning Module. Since the directory traversal vulnerability deals with files, any suggestive parameter that might read files from the local file system would make a great target for directory traversal vulnerabilities.

We can leverage suggestive parameters and programmatic endpoints to discover vulnerabilities when assessing web applications.

Let's consider conducting a web application assessment during which we encounter programmatic endpoints. We'll imagine we've discovered the URL/endpoint https://www.Megacorpone.com/files, in which _files_ is a programmatic endpoint of a web stack. Further, a user's session object is often intercepted to provide handling of messages or routing.[2](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/WEB-200-28380/learning/directory-traversal-attacks-30962/understanding-suggestive-parameters-31277/understanding-suggestive-parameters-31454#fn-local_id_207-2) Although this endpoint may still be susceptible to directory traversal, conventional traversal attacks might not work and would instead re-route us to a separate endpoint.

To better understand how this re-routing occurs, we'll examine some theory behind absolute pathing and relative pathing in the next section.