In this Learning Module, we will cover the following Learning Units:

- JavaScript Basics for Offensive Uses
- Cross-Site Scripting - Discovery

_Cross-Site Scripting_ (XSS) is a vulnerability that exploits the trust a user has in the site they are visiting. This trust is exploited by content that is dynamically injected into the page rendered by the user's browser. XSS targets a victim when they are visiting a web server. Unlike many other web application vulnerabilities, the visiting victim must have more expansive permissions than we as the attacker have in order for the attack to be useful. However, because a target user is required, many write-ups and explanations of XSS stop once a basic _proof-of-concept_ (PoC) is reached. Typically, this proof-of-concept might open an alert box for any user that visits the page.

In addition to stopping at the proof-of-concept, the name "cross-site scripting" has also caused much confusion in the industry. As we'll find, the exploit does not have to be "cross-site" nor does it have to involve "scripting". A better name for these types of attacks would be JavaScript injection or HTML injection (when no JavaScript is used).

In this Learning Module, we'll configure our Kali machine for the XSS environment Learning Modules. We'll also learn how to use the XSS Sandbox, which will help us understand how to exploit XSS when we don't have a victim to target.

In subsequent Learning Modules, we'll find that there is much more to exploitation than just an alert box. We'll discover that, in many situations, XSS provides us full access to what the target user's browser can do, see, and access. First, we'll start by discussing the different types of XSS and how they are exploited. Next, we'll demonstrate how we can steal sensitive data or phish users. Finally, we'll review a case study to exploit a real-world XSS vulnerability.

Though modern browsers have implemented various forms of protection against XSS vulnerabilities, many times these protections are not enough (HttpOnly flag on cookies[1](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/web-200-28380/learning/cross-site-scripting-introduction-and-discovery-30964/cross-site-scripting-introduction-and-discovery-31393#fn-local_id_419-1)) or cause too many issues to be implemented (content security policy[2](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/web-200-28380/learning/cross-site-scripting-introduction-and-discovery-30964/cross-site-scripting-introduction-and-discovery-31393#fn-local_id_419-2)).