When Wi-Fi first became widely available, we started with the relatively simple ieee80211[1](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-210-9545/learning/linux-wireless-tools,-drivers,-and-stacks-15799/wireless-stacks-and-drivers-15860/wireless-stacks-and-drivers-15998#fn-local_id_62-1) subsystem. This was good enough for Linux to interact with the various drivers and provide a common interface to handle Wi-Fi cards.

The Wireless Extension (WE),[2](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-210-9545/learning/linux-wireless-tools,-drivers,-and-stacks-15799/wireless-stacks-and-drivers-15860/wireless-stacks-and-drivers-15998#fn-local_id_62-2) known as _wext_, is an extension to the Linux networking interface to deal with the specificity of Wi-Fi. It was implemented in three parts that interact with each other.

The first part was a set of user tools to control the drivers, with iwconfig, iwlist, iwspy, and iwpriv. The second part was implementing wext in Wi-Fi drivers to answer actions triggered by wireless tools. Finally, wext required a middle-man to communicate the actions of the different user tools to the drivers and respond back, which is in the kernel.

Some early drivers relied on external utilities to control various aspects and capabilities of the wireless card. Each chipset had its own utility but none were compatible with each other. They had different syntax, different capabilities, and each one could only handle its own driver.

The landscape of wireless card drivers, utilities, and standards was still littered with inconsistencies. For example, most drivers could not implement master mode, change the card's power output, or support Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA). Even the interface names weren't standardized under ieee80211, leading to obvious confusion about when to use "eth", "wifi", "ath", "wlan", etc.

Although wext was a step in the right direction, many wireless drivers still had different capabilities and each one implemented the wireless extensions differently.